An advance in science or technology means an advance in overall knowledge or capability in a field of science or technology (not a company’s own state of knowledge or capability alone). This includes the adaptation of knowledge or capability from another field of science or technology in order to make such an advance where this adaptation was not readily deducible. An advance in science or technology may have tangible consequences (such as a new or more efficient cleaning product, or a process which generates less waste) or more intangible outcomes (new knowledge or cost improvements, for example).8. A process, material, device, product, service or source of knowledge does not become an advance in science or technology simply because science or technology is used in its creation. Work which uses science or technology but which does not advance scientific or technological capability as a whole is not an advance in science or technology. A project which seeks to, for example,a) extend overall knowledge or capability in a field of science or technology; or b) create a process, material, device, product or service which incorporates or represents an increase in overall knowledge or capability in a field of science or technology; or c) make an appreciable improvement to an existing process, material, device, product or service through scientific or technological changes; or d) use science or technology to duplicate the effect of an existing process, material, device, product or service in a new or appreciably improved way (e.g. a product which has exactly the same performance characteristics as existing models, but is built in a fundamentally different manner) will therefore be R&D. Even if the advance in science or technology sought by a project is not achieved or not fully realised, R&D still takes place. If a particular advance in science or technology has already been made or attempted but details are not readily available (for example, if it is a trade secret), work to achieve such an advance can still be an advance in science or technology. However, the routine analysis, copying or adaptation of an existing product, process, service or material, will not be an advance in science or technology.

The activities which directly contribute to achieving this advance in science or technology through the resolution of scientific or technological uncertainty are R&D.13. Scientific or technological uncertainty exists when knowledge of whether something is scientifically possible or technologically feasible, or how to achieve it in practice, is not readily available or deducible by a competent professional working in the field. This includes system uncertainty. Scientific or technological uncertainty will often arise from turning something that has already been established as scientifically feasible into a cost-effective, reliable and reproducible process, material, device, product or service. 14. Uncertainties that can readily be resolved by a competent professional working in the field are not scientific or technological uncertainties. Similarly, improvements, optimisations and fine-tuning which do not materially affect the underlying science or technology do not constitute work to resolve scientific or technological uncertainty.

Science is the systematic study of the nature and behaviour of the physical and material universe. Work in the arts, humanities and social sciences, including economics, is not science for the purpose of these Guidelines. Mathematical techniques are frequently used in science. From April 2023 mathematical advances in themselves are treated as science for the purposes of these Guidelines, whether or not they are advances in representing the nature and behaviour of the physical and material universe. These Guidelines apply equally to work in any branch or field of science. Technology is the practical application of scientific principles and knowledge, where ‘scientific’ is based on the definition of science above. These Guidelines apply equally to work in any branch or field of technology.